[SYCL Spec][Joint Matrix] Add a new overload for joint_matrix_apply to be able to return result into a different matrix (#13153)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_matrix/sycl_ext_oneapi_matrix.asciidoc

});
```

> ===== Input and output matrix are different

Author: The intention of this new overload is to only modify the destination matrix. I will add more clarification to the spec.
I will also add const modifier in the example to emphasize that.

> ===== Input and output matrix are different

Reviewer: I think this is an improvement. However I think it would be better to have an implementation that removed all restrictions that the interface imposes with respect to the cuda runtime implementation. The cuda implementation allows doing operations with an arbitrary number of matrices, provided that they are the same size (because then the mapping is the same to matrix index).

To explicit, this change allows 

```
Matrix_1{nm} = f1(matrix_2{nm}) + f2(matrix_2{nm})
```
where n,m specify a matrix element, and f1/f2 are arbitrary element wise functions.
But what if you want operations like this but for 3 or 4 or 5 matrices?
You can't do that here but you can in CUDA.

I think I remember that the original CUDA-like way of doing it was changed for some intel hardware reason, and also that it is nice to have a lambda. But if you want to keep it like this maybe there can at least be a parameter pack in the lambda that allows an arbitrary number of matrices?
Even for this it might be wise to think carefully about if there are any further restrictions such an interface imposes on programmability.

I still think it would be best to have the `get_wi_marray()` style function that is equivalent to cuda impl and imposes no additional restrictions on programmability.

> ===== Input and output matrix are different

Reviewer 2: In implementation of apply, we still use `get_wi_data` so not sure what are the reasons to limit interface to `apply` style.

> ===== Input and output matrix are different

Author: The main reason for removing the original way of element-wise operations, which I call the explicit loop style via Intel's get_wi_data and CUDA'wi_marray, is that backends are forced to make per WI distribution while there are other distributions that may be more efficient depending on the target hardware like per row distribution. 
It is true that today we use the loop style in the implementation but we plan on moving away from that as we are introducing a new SPIRV function for the apply. 

Other reasons are: this WI reasoning is hardware specific and hard to reason about (conversion from SG to WI domain) from user perspective. Functionality-wise for the user, the explicit loop style does not add more compared to the apply style as in both cases, operations are performed on all elements of the matrix so there is no benefit of exposing the WI portion.

I agree with Jack that limiting the apply signature made it that you can do things with the explicit loop style that you cannot do with apply today, like this one case. But I am fixing it in this PR.
Our approach has been that we add these cases when they come up :) 

The specific case that came up from CUDA code is:
```
for (int i = 0; i < c_frag.num_elements; i++) {
 c_frag.x[i] = alpha * acc_frag.x[i] + beta * c_frag.x[i];
}
```
with this PR user can write this in SYCL as follows:
```
sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::matrix::joint_matrix_apply(item.get_sub_group(), acc_frag, c_frag, 
                                    [=](float &x, float &y) { y = alpha * x + beta * y; });  
```
If there is more than one function, I don't think that is an issue.
But if there is more than two matrices, like 
`jm3 = jm1*alpha + jm2*beta;`
, users will have to break it up into two apply functions compared to one line of code with the explicit loop style: `jm3_wi_data[i] =  jm1.wi_data*alpha + jm2.wi_data*beta; `
But at the same time, users do not need to know about size of `wi_data` per WI. 
Performance-wise,  backends that use the loops style underneath will generate multiple loops which may end up fused or not. But in both cases, there should not be performance degradation. 
Having said that, I am open to adding the variadic matrix argument to avoid writing multiple apply functions :)

> ===== Input and output matrix are different

Reviewer: OK sure.

});
```

===== Input and output matrix are different
In this case, `joint_matrix_apply` takes two `joint_matrix` arguments:
`srcjm` and `destjm` that have the same `use`, type, number of rows,
number of columns, and `layout`. `srcjm` is a read-only argument but
`destjm` is a read and write argument. The callable object must be
invocable with two parameters of type `T&`. Commonly, applications
pass a lambda expression.

```c++
namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::matrix {

template<typename Group, typename T, use Use, size_t Rows, size_t Cols,
  layout Layout, typename F>
void joint_matrix_apply(Group g,
          joint_matrix<Group, T, Use, Rows, Cols, Layout>& srcjm,
          joint_matrix<Group, T, Use, Rows, Cols, Layout>& destjm,
	  F&& func);

} // namespace sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::matrix
```

In the following example, every element of the matrix `C` is
multiplied by `alpha`. The result is returned into a different matrix
`D`.

```c++
joint_matrix_apply(sg, C, D, [=](const T &x, T &y) {
    y = x * alpha;
});

> ```

Reviewer 3: I don't see a problem with this API, but I wonder if it should be more general.  For example:

* Is there a reason that one matrix must be the "source" and the other the "destination"?  Is it hard to support the case where the lambda writes to elements in both matrices?

* I think it makes sense that `Rows` and `Cols` must be the same for both matrices.  What about `Use` and `Layout`, though?  Is there a reason these can't be different for the two matrices?  What about the type `T`?  Could that be different?

* Is there a reason to limit this to just two matrices?  You could imagine this API taking a parameter pack, allowing an arbitrary number of matrices.

Author: @gmlueck,

- I relaxed the definition to not require read or write assumptions. Both matrices can be either read or written into.

- I think it is safer to require the same `use` and `layout`. To change the `use`, `joint_matrix_copy` can be used. 
`T` should be the same. This is because there are different casts that can be used depending on `T`. It is better to have the user specify the right cast in the lambda.

- Using a parameter pack will require the lambda to also use a parameter pack. Also, how do we pack the wi_data elements and pass them to the lambda (see line 22 in https://godbolt.org/z/E1sT5oY3P).
I don' think passing a variadic number will be useful as the user can implement any number of arguments with the two arguments version. As an optimization, we can also add a three arguments version to avoid using intermediate matrices in the case of ternary operation like C=A*B.

What do you think?

Reviewer 3: > * I think it is safer to require the same `use` and `layout`. To change the `use` or `layout`, `joint_matrix_copy` can be used https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_matrix/sycl_ext_oneapi_matrix.asciidoc#copy.
>   `T` should be the same. This is because there are different casts that can be used depending on `T`. It is better to have the user specify the right cast in the lambda.

I don't understand why it is "safer" to require `use`, `layout`, and `T` to be the same for the two matrices.  In what sense is it safer?  What use cases do you have in mind for the form that takes two matrices?  For these use cases, will it always be the case that `use`, `layout`, and `T` are the same?

Maybe there is an implementation problem.  The current implementation probably assumes that the distribution of matrix elements across work-items will be the same for the two matrices.  For example, I suspect your implementation assumes that `wi_data[j]` for work-item `I` has the same _Row_ / _Col_ coordinate in both the _A_ and _B_ matrices.  Does this assumption become invalidated if `use`, `layout`, or `T` are different for _A_ and _B_?

Author: Correct, if use, layout and T are different, there is no guarantee work items will have same number of data. 
Yes, the CUDA use cases suggest use, layout and T are the same.

Author: @gmlueck, as a correction, if use and layout are different, there is not guarantee of ownership.
So changing type should be fine.
I will relax the type restriction to enable the use cases where conversion with extra arguments is needed.

===== Binary Operation
In this case, `joint_matrix_apply` takes two `joint_matrix` arguments:
`jm0` and `jm1` that have the same `use`, number of rows, number of
columns, and `layout`. `jm0` and `jm1` can be read-only, write-only,
or read and write arguments. The callable object must be invocable

> with two parameters `x` and `y` of type `T&` where `x` is an element

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with two parameters `x` and `y` of types `T0&` and `T1&`, where `x` is an element
```
